# Exercise 5: Cost management and optimization 

> [!Note]
> Goal: Check the usage cost of your project and learn about cost optimization tips 

## Module overview

In [Exercise-4](/Lab-Instructions/4.exercise-monitoring-and-storage-management.md), you used GitHub Copilot for Azure to understand the logging setting on your application, review monitoring data, and perform data plane operations on your storage account.

In this module, you are going to use GitHub Copilot for Azure to check the usage cost of your project and get cost optimization suggestions.  

Time to complete: 10 minutes

## Check the pricing tier and sku of your resources

Let's examine the pricing tiers and skus of your resources in **Agent mode**. For this scenario, using agent mode is recommended as GitHub Copilot initiates a series of tool calls to comprehend the resources being used in your project and your application's functionality to provide cost optimization solutions.

`Prompt: help me review the pricing tiers and SKUs of the resources in my subscription.`

## Getting tips on cost optimization 

Remain in **Agent mode** and get tailored recommendations on optimizing the cost of your project. For this scenario, using agent mode is recommended as GitHub Copilot makes a series of tool calls to understand the resources being used in your project and your application's functionality to provide cost optimization solutions. 

`Prompt: How do I optimize the cost of my current project?`

## Checking the usage cost 

Now, switch to **Ask mode**. Let's check the cost breakdown of your subscription by service asking the following prompt. Note: Cost Management is currently only supported in Ask mode.

`Prompt: @azure Give me a cost breakdown for my subscription`

This prompt will scope your request to the selected subscription and query the cost management API for actual charges on each of the services hosted on your subscription. Since the resources were recently created for this lab, it's expected that there may not be any data available yet.

## Congratulations!
Congratulations on completing the lab! Throughout this exercise, you transformed a basic Python application into a fully functional system deployed on Azure. You integrated AI Search and AI Chat capabilities, monitored your logs, managed storage accounts efficiently, and researched cost optimization strategies. Well done on mastering these essential skills and enhancing your knowledge in cloud computing and AI technologies!